---
layout: post
title: "十一第一天"
date: 2017-10-01 16:19:00
comments:

---

#### 十一第一天

作为一个宅男, 一个35-something的中年银, 看美剧玩游戏有点说不过去了。本着技术可能过时，英语不会过时的指导方针，记录一下今天的phrasal verb的学习成果。笔记来自youtube上的angolink免费教程。

#### Dialog 1
Could you **turn up** the TV please?  (**increase the volume**)  
O.K.......  Is it loud enough?  
No, that's too loud , please **turn it down**.  
Will you **make up you mind**? Do you want it loud or quiet?  

What's the matter with you? Why are you so **wound up**?(stressed)  
I'm sorry. I'm tired. I **stayed up** last night.(did not got to bed)  
Why did you stay up?  
I had to **catch up** on my work.(do my unfinished work)

I thought you had **given up** you job.  
Yes, I have. This is just a temporary job I have **taken up**.  
What can we do to **calm** you **down**?

I think I need soume fresh air. **Are** you **up** for a short walk?  
Sure, and we can **pick up** something for dinner on the way back.

#### Dialog 2
I don't know why Joe hasn't **turn up** yet.I hope his car hasn't **broken down**.  
Joe is not coming. He **turned down** my invitation.  
Realy? That's not like Joe.  
I know. He said his new job was **taking up** all his time.  
You seem a bit **let down**.  
Yes, I am. I think he was **making up** an excuse.  
I doubt that. I'm sure he will **make up** for that.

I hope so. Would you like a cigarette?  
No, thanks. I'm **cutting down** on cigarettes.  
I'm not in the mood any more. Let's **wind down** this party.  
Oh come on. It's you birthday party! Please **cheer up** now.

#### Exercises
1. Is she still angry? No, she has **calm down** now.
2. I **gave up** smoking 2 years ago. I haven't touched a cigarette since then.
3. I am really behind my studis. I must **catch up** on them.
4. He drinks too muck. He should really **cut down** on alcohol.
5. The hotel was terrible. We were really **let down** by it.
6. Has he **taken up** you offer? Yes, he has accepted it.
7. Could you **turn down** the music? It's too loud.
8. Don't be upset. Try and **cheer up**.
9. That was a very bad mistake. I don't know how to **make up** for it.
10. More than 500 people **turned up** to watch the show last night.
